In this video I'll explain the concepts of VX lane and taps and how our NSX logical switches use these
objects to allow Lehre to traffic to traverse a layer 3 network.
So first off what is a tap tap is a VM kernel poor that specifically required for VX LAN.
Now with VSE fair we have two types of virtual switches and we have our vse for a standard switch and
the VSE very standard which is a switch that's configured on individual ESX hosts and has a fairly limited
feature set.
Then we have the vees fair distributed swinge which has much more features and has a centralized management
plane in the center.
So when we create a VSE for distributed switch we have a central point of configuration and we can easily
make changes to many hosts at once.
Now with NSX we have a third type of virtual switch called the logical switch.
And the logical switch is configured using something called a VX LAN network identifier or VNA
so prior to creating a logical switch we need to establish a pool of these Vienna ice valid villainize
begin at 5000 so that they can't be easily confused with feelings.
And each Vienna serves as a unique logical identifier very similar to a villain for a logical switch.
So as you create logical switches via eyes from our pool are automatically assigned.
And that's kind of a little bit of the background of what happens with these logical switches.
Now when you establish a logical switch there's going to be a VM kernel port call the VI tap that gets
automatically created.
And we'll talk about how that happens a little bit later in this video.
You might have one V-Tech for a logical switch.
You might have three or four Wii taps right there automatically generated and I'll show you how those
are created.
And just a little while but for now just understand that the Wii type is a VM kernel port and the job
of the Wii tap is to perform VX LAN encapsulation and de-caf solution it adds headers to traffic that's
about to traverse the physical network like a VX LAN had for an IP header and a Mac Hetter.
So the goal of these vaccines is simply to ship traffic from one ESX host to another across some physical
network.
In this diagram we have two virtual machines that are connected to the same logical switch VM one and
VM two.
And you'll notice that VM one nvm two are on the same IP address range of 192 out 168.
Not one not 10 and 192 out 168 not one not 11.
So this is two virtual machines that are connected to the same logical switch.
And if they want to communicate with each other that's going to be layer to traffic right.
VM one wants to ping VM to for example the source IP is going to be the IP of VM one destination IP
the IP of VM to right.
There's no need to utilize a default gateway or anything like that.
This is just a straight up layer to traffic.
And we can also see the source Mac is the MAC address of VM one the destination MAC is the MAC address
of VM to
however these two virtual machines are on different ESX I host and when we have a logical switch and
victims that are on different hosts that traffic is going to have to traverse a physical network that
we call the underlaid network.
And in order for that to happen that traffic is going to have to flow through the tap that's going to
have to get VX actually encapsulated.
And essentially what's going to happen is the V-Tech of the first host is going to ship that traffic
over to the tap of the second host.
So let's take a look at how this works.
Right now my source and destination IP and source and destination MAC are the addresses of my virtual
machines.
When this frame arrives at the tap tap is going to add a new set of headers.
It's going to add a new source and destination IP and a new source and destination MAC the source IP
is the sending V tap the destination IP is the Receiving the tap in that traffic will traverse the physical
network arrive at the destination via tap on the other ESX I host.
And now it's the job of the destination the tap to strip away these v excellent headers to remove this
additional source and destination IP and source the destination MAC that specify the IPs of the taps.
And as it strips away those headers it will eventually arrive at the V.N. I feel of the VX thing.
And if we go back in our presentation just a little bit.
Let's take one more look at these headers in red we see the original frame with the original payload
the data source and destination IP of the VM the source and destination max of the virtual machine.
The Wii tap is adding those headers that you see in blue VX LAN network identifier as source and destination
IP of the taps and the source and destination MAC of the VTX.
So when that traffic arrives at the destination VTEC all those headers that we just saw in red need
to get stripped away so we can get back to the original frame with the source and destination IPs and
max of the virtual machines.
And as the tap is decapitating that frame as it's removing those VX line headers one of the headers
is going to be the Vienna five thousand one.
And that's how the Wii tap knows which logical switch to drop that frame onto.
So when it drops that frame on to Vienna 5 0 0 0 0 1 it's going to drop it there with the original headers
intact.
And now the frame can arrive at my virtual machine.
Now I know this is a little confusing at first.
Let's take a look at another example.
In this case our physical network is going to be a little bit different.
Now we're going to insert a router into the middle of this mix.
So let's take a look at Virtu machine one now wants to communicate with virtual machine to and notice
their addresses haven't changed.
They're both still connected to the same logical switch and when they communicate as far as my virtual
machines are concerned it's a layer to communication between two venoms that are on the same switch.
So here's what my headers are going to look like.
VM one will generate a ping or some other traffic to V.M. to and the source IP and destination IP are
the virtual machines and so are the source and destination MAC.
Now that frame is going to flow through the logical switch and hit that the tap
quickly before we examine how those headers are going to change the tap level.
Just noticed in this case my Wii taps are on different IP address ranges.
The tap on host one is 10 one don't want turn the tap on.
Host two is 172 16 at 10:10 and I've got a physical router in between these ESX hosts.
So this is where VX land provides us some major benefits because now I can have a Lear to network that
extends across a physical layer 3 network.
So here we see the frame arrives at the tap and the tap is going to encapsulate it.
The original frame is going to be left intact but the tap is going to put new headers on the outside
of it.
It's called our outer headers and the source IP is going to be the type of host one the destination
IP is the type of host to the source.
Mac is the MAC address of the tap one the destination MAC is the MAC address of my router.
So as this frame arrives at the router let's kind of walk through with the router is actually going
to do.
The router will start to analyze these headers and it will say is a little noticed that the destination
MAC is our Mac one that's the MAC address of an interface on the router and it'll look at the source
Mac and that will be in the back of the tap.
And so the router will think hey here's a layer to frame that is destined for me that belongs in this
router.
So little strip away that source Mac and that destination MAC and that's where those layer two headers
stop and the next thing it'll do is it'll analyze the destination IP.
And in this case my destination IP is 172 not 16 not 10 not 10 which is why we type over here.
So the router will realize hey that's not my destination IP this packet is destined for something on
the 172 the 16 10 0 network and the router will then do what a router does the router will say hey I've
got an interface on that network over here.
Right.
And so what it'll do is it'll then send that packet out that interface right and that's the job of routers
to take any packet that's on one network and route it to another network that it's destined for
so our router does its job or receives that frame and it looks at the lead to headers looks at the three
headers routes it out to the appropriate network.
And here's what our headers look like after the fact.
Now few things have changed in this case the source IP is still the IP address of our sending the tap
the destination IP also has not changed it's the IP address of the receiving VTM.
And then we have our source Mac which is this interface on the router and the destination MAC which
is now the MAC address of VTEC.
And so now what will happen is the V-Tech will receive this frame and the V-Tech will go through a similar
process that the router did.
The tap will analyze the source and destination MAC and it'll say OK this is destined for PC Mac.
That's me.
Let me go ahead and strip away these layer two hatters and that it'll analyze the destination IP and
the tabel will say that's my IP address.
Let me go ahead and strip away the IP headers and the next header that it's going to see the next header
the V-Tech will see is a Vienna I had or identifying which logical switch this frame is destined for.
And that's how the Wii tap knows to forward that frame to logical switch.
Vienna 55000 what.
So the Wii tap has now stripped away all of those outer headers.
My frame is delivered to the logical switch.
And now the original headers are used.
We have our original source and destination IP.
Our original source and destination MAC.
So now the frame will arrive at virtual machine to VM to will say this is my destination MAC let me
strip that away and it will look at the layer three Hatter it will see that this is this virtual machine.
Destination IP.
And at that point it can examine the payload.
Now hopefully this is really clarified the role of the Wii actually in the taps.
But if there's still confusion I recommend going back and re watching this video again from the beginning
and hopefully that'll help clarify any questions you might have.
Now we're going to proceed on here we're going to talk a little bit about the impact of quality of service
in this environment.
So here we see a again my same virtual machines on the same networks and we have our Wii taps which
are on different networks and a physical router in the underlying network and virtual machine one is
going to generate some traffic bound for virtual machine too.
And this traffic has been tagged with S.O.S hador and a DCP have we've appended quality of service values.
This traffic to ensure that as it traverses the physical network that it'll be prioritized appropriately
what happens is when the VX Slan encapsulation takes place the tap is actually going to recognize those
quality of service values and also append them to that outer Hetter.
Because remember all of the addressing and all the quality of service information that this VM has is
applying to that frame.
That's all going to be obscured behind an outer header and the tap creates.
So the type will pull those S.O.S and DCP tags place them on the outer header.
And that way our quality of service configurations can be maintained as is packet traverses the physical
network.
Now when our next video we're going to take a look at how these Vitebsk get created and how many Wii
taps are actually going to exist on each logical switch.